
Production history tool:

Put the production-history.lisp file into the other-files directory before
loading ACT-R and put the 76-ptrace-button.tcl file into the
environment/GUI/dialogs directory before starting the environment.

Doing so will add a button called "Production History" to the tracing
section of the Control Panel dialog.

To use the tool you need to either open the production history window before 
running the model or set the :save-p-history parameter to t in the model 
to enable the recording of the data.  Then run the model as you normally would.

Once the model has finished running click the "Get history" button in the bottom 
left corner of the production history window.  It will draw a grid with the
rows being the productions in the model and the columns being the times at
which a conflict-resolution event occurred.

If the :draw-blank-columns parameter in the model was set to t (the default)
then all conflict resolution events will have a column in the grid.  If that
parameter is set to nil when the graph is drawn then conflict resolution 
events which had an empty conflict set will not have a column in the grid.

The cells in the grid are color coded based on what happened during the 
conflict resolution event at the time indicated for the column.

- If the production was the one selected the cell will be green.

- If the production was in the conflict set, but not selected then the cell
  will be orange.

- If the production was not in the conflict set then the cell will be red.

- If the production did not exist at that time the cell will be white.

Placing the cursor over a cell will cause some details for that production
during that conflict resolution event to be printed at the bottom of the
window.

For the green and orange cells it will print the utility value for the
production at that time.  For the red cells it will print the whynot 
information indicating the condition that caused the production to not be
in the conflict set.  There is no extra information to print for a white
cell.

Clicking on the name of a production in the grid will open a new procedural
viewer dialog with that production selected.

The + and - buttons at the bottom of the window will zoom in or out grid.

The "Grid" button will cycle through three display options of the black
grid lines: both on, only horizontal on, both off.


Retrieval history tool:

Put the retrieval-history.lisp file into the other-files directory before
loading ACT-R and put the 77-retrieval-history.tcl file into the
environment/GUI/dialogs directory before starting the environment.

Doing so will add a button called "Retrieval History" to the tracing
section of the Control Panel dialog.

To use the tool you need to either open the retrieval history window before 
running the model or set the :save-dm-history parameter to t in the model 
to enable the recording of the data.  Then run the model as you normally would.

Once the model has finished running click the "Get history" button in the upper 
left corner of the retrieval history window.  That will fill in the list on the
left with all of the times that a retrieval request was made by the model.

Selecting a time on the list will cause the request that was made to be 
displayed in the Request section of the window (lower right) and fill in
the Matching chunks section with the list of chunks that were in DM and
matched the request at that time.  The top name on the list is either
the chunk which was retrieved by that request or :retrieval-failure if
there was no chunk successfully retrieved.  The rest of the chunks listed
are in no particular order.  

Selecting a a chunk name from the matching chunks list will cause the chunk 
and the parameters which it had at the selected time to be displayed in the 
Details section of the window.  One note on the operation of the the tool: 
it assumes that the chunks in DM are never modified and the display shows the 
chunk as it exists at the end of the run not as it was when it was retrieved.  
Since the normal operation of the system does not modify chunks once they 
enter DM that shouldn't be a problem.

Buffer history tool:

Put the buffer-history.lisp file into the other-files directory before
loading ACT-R and put the 78-buffer-history.tcl file into the
environment/GUI/dialogs directory before starting the environment.

Doing so will add a button called "Buffer History" to the tracing
section of the Control Panel dialog.

To use the tool you need to either open the buffer history window before 
running the model or set the :save-buffer-history parameter to t in the model 
to enable the recording of the data.  Then run the model as you normally would.

Once the model has finished running click the "Get history" button in the upper 
left corner of the buffer history window.  That will fill in the list on the
left with all of the times at which some buffer change was made during the
model's run.  The buffer changes which get recorded are any setting, modifying,
or clearing of the buffer and changes to the general queries of state free/busy
and state error.   The list in the middle will be filled with the names of all
the buffers which were recorded (the setting of the :traced-buffers parameter
determines which buffers are recorded).

Selecting a time from the first list and a buffer on the second list will 
fill in the details window showing the chunk which was in that buffer and
the buffer-status for that buffer at the end of the selected time.  One
thing to note is that the state of the buffer at the end of the time 
step (which is what gets recorded) may not be the same as it was at the
beginning of the time step or the state that a conflict resolution 
event which occured at the "same" time referenced.  Thus, you may
need to pick the previous time on the list to see the state of the buffer 
at the start of the time step.

